---
layout: post
title: Artificial Intelligence and Contemporary Society
date: 27-08-2024
categories: [documentations]
tag: [like,comment,subscribe]
---


# Artificial Intelligence and Contemporary Society

In today’s society, most of us have become heavily dependent on computers. Computers play a significant role in our daily lives, providing considerable benefits. Then came the mobile phone (now a smartphone), which has further enhanced our lives with its versatile uses and functionalities. Thanks to computers and smartphones, we are able to save time and money, and transform many of our tasks into innovative, creative, and visually appealing endeavors.

However, it's important to note that, just as every light casts a shadow—whether deep, intense, or faint—so does the use of computers and smartphones leave certain negative impacts on society.
Yet, the wonder is boundless! The desire to know is infinite!
Let’s turn back the pages of history to 1950 and ponder, "Do computers possess intelligence?"  or “Who is more intelligent human or AI?”
Alan Turing conducted a test on computers, and even on humans.
In 1956, the term "Artificial Intelligence" (AI) was coined, and gradually, progress continued, much like the steady flow of water in a river, through both summer and rainy seasons.
The applications of AI in E-commerce, Social Networking, and other areas have significantly impacted all sectors and ages in our society. We are all interconnected through these advancements. After pruning the outer part, a fruit can still be enjoyed for its sweetness, we embrace and enjoy these changes with enthusiasm. Society is with us, and we are with society.
In 2022, a transformative shift occurred with ChatGPT. You ask a question, and it provides an answer! From nearly all the information repositories worldwide, our questions are answered by AI itself.
When we say “it provides,” it’s because of the use of machine learning (ML). Interestingly, it not only provides answers but also verifies and refines information. We are getting answers to many questions that would otherwise have taken considerable time and money to find. With the advent of various LLM GPT models and numerous AI-driven applications, our infrastructure and plans are being transformed.
-	We can now enhance education and educational science, making them more dynamic and productive.
-	We can create and utilize error-free and automated machines.
-	We have been able to bring significant changes to the medical field.
-	From a commercial perspective, costs are reduced, and profits are increased.
-	In entertainment, AI enables us to create music and videos.
-	AI helps in disaster management by collecting information that can save many lives.
-	And more, including voice typing, drug production, medical diagnostics, and space research.


AI has brought remarkable changes to our lives and contemporary society. Our societal infrastructure has undergone a fundamental transformation. Whether knowingly or unknowingly, we have become part of this system, leaving our digital footprints—both good and bad—in cyberspace. Every field of work now requires rethinking and reshaping plans. Industry 4.0 represents a revolution across various sectors.
AI has invigorated society but also presents a challenge for each individual to adapt and evolve. We, as people of contemporary society, are constantly evolving with the motto “Charaiveti” (to keep moving forward). 
With such changes, society must remain alert, conscious, and protected. Therefore, we should consider certain issues:
-	Are we misusing artificial intelligence?
-	Are we merely asking questions and memorizing answers without advancing in life?
-	Is our data secure?
-	Are we using AI according to established norms?
-	Are we using AI ethically?

  
Some concerns regarding the use of AI that we and society need to address include:
-	Will it lead to the loss of many jobs?
-	Will we all be forced to use AI, regardless of our financial capability?
-	Will the creation and use of AI be solely GPT-oriented?
-	Are we misdefining AI?
-	Is it affecting our creativity and innovative capabilities?
-	Lastly, as many fear, will AI surpass human intelligence? The fear began in 1997 when IBM's Deep Blue defeated the world’s best chess player, Garry Kasparov. Since then, there has been some apprehension about AI potentially surpassing human intelligence.


In conclusion, artificial intelligence is a science that, when studied and used well, will advance society significantly. In cases where organizations lack effective planning or timely updates, job losses may occur, though likely less than during previous industrial revolutions.
Instead of relying entirely on artificial intelligence, we should continue to foster our innovative thinking, creativity, and research capabilities, and use AI knowledgeably. Let society move forward with everything in its stride!
